menu/english.md, before:

---
layout:      page
sidebar:     right
breadcrumb:  true

title:       "Migration Aid"
subheadline: "In English"
teaser:      "Migration Aid is a volunteer civil initiative to help refugees arriving to Hungary reach their assigned refugee camps. "
permalink:   "/english/"
header:
   image_fullwidth: "header.jpg"

---

# What is Migration Aid? 

When entering Hungary at the southern borders, they are registered as asylum seekers and sent to one of the Hungarian refugee camps. They need to get there on their own and within 48 hours. Without speaking Hungarian and receiving detailed instructions on how to get there, they have difficulties finding their way. Most of them have come from Afghanistan, Syria, Iran, several African or Balkan countries with their family and children and have travelled a long way without enough money, food and hygienic conditions, so they are not in the best condition.

**The Migration Aid volunteers decided to help them find which trains or buses take them to their destination and give them food, drinks, personal hygiene products and a couple of good words while they are transiting at train stations.**

If you want to join the initiative, there are many ways you can help! Join our [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/migrationaidhungary) for regularly updated information.

**Come to the main train stations of Budapest** where you can find our volunteers (usually wearing a pin with the Migration Aid logo) and join them giving food, drinks and information to arriving refugees. Even if you only have an hour, it would be very helpful, especially if you speak any languages that the refugees might speak!

# How can I help?

**You can make donations, or you can volunteer.**

# Donations

{% include alert warning='Currently we are only accepting blankets, matresses, yoga mats, sleeping bags, raincoats and torches, which are accepted at the Mozsár steet storage.' %}

{% include alert warning='ATTENTION! THE RECEPTION OF DONATIONS IS TEMPORARILY SUSPENDED IN OUR CENTRAL STORAGE AND IN THE TRANZIT ZONES! PLEASE, DO NOT BRING/SEND DONATIONS TO THESE LOCATIONS UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE! WE WILL REOPEN OUR STORAGES VERY SOON!' %} 

We are incredibly moved by the generous amount of donations we have received recently from you for the asylum seekers. However, we received so much that our storage rooms are already full, and at the same time we are aware of a large amount of online orders that will arrive in the next few days. We are trying our best to sort and distribute the goods that we received from you among the asylum seekers in need. At the same time, we would like to ask you to **NOT TO BRING ANYTHING** either to Verseny street, Kálvária square, nor to any of the Tranzit Areas until further notice, when our storage will have been reduced. We will be able to supply the Tranzit Areas from the central storage for the next couple of days. 

Once we have arranged our storages, we will inform you here on our Facebook page and then you can bring more donations. Until then, we will be eternally grateful for your patience! Thank you! Those who have already dispacthed an online order or shipment to us, do not worry! 

We will accept each order that arrives. If you want to send us something now, please schedule the delivery later than 15 September to Verseny street, or wait until further notice.

## Donation centers and storage locations

### **Mozsár street storage**

Blankets, matresses, yoga mats, sleeping bags, raincoats and torches (manually chargeable) are accepted in the Mozsár street storage:

    Caledonia Étterem,
    Budapest 1066. Mozsár utca 9 
    every day 14.00.-19.00. 

Please dont birng anything else here, as we have no storage or transport for any other items! 
We have no cleaning facilities, so please make sure to only bring clean bnalkets and matresses. 

### **NEW STORAGE: Verseny street 10**

Our new storage room  is opening on 3rd September, Thursday. 
Address and opening hours:

      Verseny street 10
      1076 Budapest 
      (north from Keleti railway station)
      every day 16.00 - 20.00. 

If you would like to donate a larger quantity of goods or services, please contact us via adomany@migrationaid.net to discuss the details. Thank you!

<!--
We are looking forward to receive the following donations here (daily updated list is available on our [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/migrationaidhungary):


- blankets, sleeping bags, polifoam (yoga mattress) 
- raincoat 
- 0.5 l still water 
- 0.2 l fruit juice 
- pre-packed snack food (biscuits, waffles, muesli, candies) in small portions 
- fruit (banana, apply) 

At the moment we DO NOT COLLECT ANY TYPE OF CLOTHES. Please follow our Facebook page where we post the actual needs daily and we will communicate when we collect clothes again. Thank you!
Please only bring those items to our storage room which are listed above. There is a reason why the list is short and that is your immense generosity, since we received a tremendous amount of donations in the past few days and many of you informed us about online orders to be shipped in the next two weeks but our storage facilities are limited. Therefore, we will only collect clothes, toys, hygiene items again, once the accumulated storages are reduced. We will update the donation list on Facebook every morning 7 am CET with the daily needs.


-->
## **Storage faclities in the tranzit areas**

We are expecting volunteers at our storages at the official tranzit areas at the **Nyugati, Keleti and Déli** railway stations. 

### **Nyugati Storage at Nyugati railway station Tranzit area**
      
      Budapest, Nyugati railway station
      behind the Eiffel office building, from lane 14 the Tranzit area is signaled with boards
      Accepting donations for refugees travelling to camps
      every day 09.00 - 22.00

      
### **Keleti Storage at Keleti railway station Tranzit area**

      Budapest, district 8, Baross square
      underground, right from the Rottenbiller street exit
      Accepting donations for refugees travelling to camps
      every day 11.00 - 22.00

### **Déli Storage at Déli underground Tranzit area**

      Budapest, district 2, Déli train station
      underground, next to the second-hand bookstore (antikvárium)
      Accepting donations for refugees travelling to camps
      every day 0-24

<!--
**Things most needed in Tranzit areas in general:**

- 0.5 l still water
- 0.2 l fruit juice
- apple and banana
- muesli bars, chocolate bars, pre-packed (small portion) waffles, biscuits, snacks
- bakery products and sliced bread
- margarine, cream cheese, cucumber, nutella, easily openable cans of beans and fish
- plastic plates, cups and cutlery
- instant soup powder
- and personal hygiene items: shower gel, soap, shampoo, toothpaste, toothbrush, razor, shaving foam, deodorant, wet wipes for babies, diapers

However, depending on the conditions we might also collect other things, such as raincoats, sweaters, personal hygiene items. Please, check our [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/migrationaidhungary) before going to donate, as we publish an updated list daily with that day’s necessities for each Tranzit area. We also welcome volunteers to help sort and distribute donations, give information and attend arriving asylum seekers.
-->

# **Volunteering**
In the meanwhile, we really **need more volunteers at the train stations** to give information and directions to the immigrants. 
You can look for our volunteers at the train stations of Budapest (Nyugati, Déli, Keleti) and offer your help directly.

Some of the locations have schedules and even training for volunteers, about these you can contact [Dóra Fauszt](https://www.facebook.com/fausztdori?fref=ts). 

We **need help at our donation center** at versen utca, to receive and select the donations and put together personal packages. If you are able to help, please come to one of our storage facilities, any days of the week. Watch for opening times!

**We also need the help of interpreters and translators**, especially in the following languages: Arabic, Urdu, Farsi, Pastu, Turkish, French, English, Albanian. Unfortunately, many refugees are in poor health conditions, we often **need medical help, volunteer doctors and nurses** are more than welcome to join our initiative! If you can help with interpretation or medical aid, please come to any train station in Budapest and offer your assistance to the volunteers there or let us know your contact details and availability also through migrationaidhungary@gmail.com



# **Helping from aborad**

### Funding medical aid
Migration Aid cannot accept money directly. However, if you would like to give money, you can donate to **Mikszáth Pharmacy’s bank account (Egészségért Foundation)**. The pharmacy has been supporting our work with pharmaceuticals for a while now. Though refugees are entitled for free basic health care services, they need to pay for medicines, and first aid products. 

When you donate, please send an e-mail to the adomany@migrationaid.net address with the amount you have given, so we can also keep track of the donations. 

      Beneficiary name: Mikszáth Gyógyszertár az Egészségért Alapítvány 
      Comment: Migration Aid
      Bank account number: 10918001-00000067-39140008 
      Name of the bank: UniCredit Bank Hungary 
      Address of the bank: 1054 Budapest, Szabadság tér 5-6., Hungary
      IBAN: HU69 1091 8001 0000 0067 3914 0008 
      SWIFT: BACXHUHB


### **Online shopping donations**

Another way of supportng our work with money is to place an online order and delivery at Tesco or GRoby, pay it online and have it shipped to our donation center at Verseny street.
If you want to send us your donations by mail or order online, we can receive the shipment at the following address:
      
      Verseny street 10
      1076 Budapest 
      (north from Keleti railway station)
      every day 16.00 - 20.00. 

{% include alert warning='PLEASE PUT HOME DELIVERY DONATIONS ON HOLD UNTIL SEPTEMBER 15!' %}

Suddenly we received many donations and we have reached the limit of our storage facility. Because of that, we would like to ask you to put your online shopping/home delivery donations on hold for 1-2 weeks, until we can empty the storages. It would also be best to consult the actual shopping lists later. Thank you for your understanding! 

<!--
 The most needed items for the supply of train stations:

- 0.5 liters natural water
- 0.2 liters fruit juice
- musli bars, chocolate bars, pre-packed (small portion) waffels, biscuits, snacks
- apples, bananas
- personal hygiene items: shower gel, soap, shampoo, toothpaste, toothbrush, razor, shaving foam, deodorant, sanitary pads
- bubble makers and kites

{% include alert info='Please note that most of the refugees are Muslims which means they do not consume anything that has pork or alcohol.' %}
-->

#### If you are doing a fundraiser from abroad

That is just great! Thank you! 
if you are raising money, pls keep in mind that we can cannot accept money directly, only material donations. Please consult our [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/migrationaidhungary) about what donations are in need, and if it is a bigger quantity, please contact us at adomany@migrationaid.net.
If you are collecting material donations, please consider what is worth shipping from abroad and what isn't. 


# **IMPORTANT**

- It is recommended to use plastic gloves when giving out food or treating sick refugees for your own safety
- It is NOT recommended to transport refugees in your own vehicle even with valid, but especially with expired papers because it can be considered human trafficking
- It is NOT recommended to lend your phone to refugees to make calls or send sms home, because you cannot be sure who they are messaging and it might be considered as crime
- Do not interfere with the work of the police. We are there to help each other and collaborate peacefully.
- Before taking photos or videos of the refugees, please ask their permission and do not publish their full name with their photos on any platform for their safety and the safety of their families staying in their home country
- It is not recommended to share your personal details, address on Facebook, neither the fact that you might take a refugee home to offer them showering and sleeping facilities
- If possible, please do not show pity. Smile and be direct while emphatic!

{% include alert info='Thank you in advance for your help!' %}

Commit message:

migration aid group link to english page

menu/english.md, after:

---
layout:      page
sidebar:     right
breadcrumb:  true

title:       "Migration Aid"
subheadline: "In English"
teaser:      "Migration Aid is a volunteer civil initiative to help refugees arriving to Hungary reach their assigned refugee camps. "
permalink:   "/english/"
header:
   image_fullwidth: "header.jpg"

---

# What is Migration Aid? 

When entering Hungary at the southern borders, they are registered as asylum seekers and sent to one of the Hungarian refugee camps. They need to get there on their own and within 48 hours. Without speaking Hungarian and receiving detailed instructions on how to get there, they have difficulties finding their way. Most of them have come from Afghanistan, Syria, Iran, several African or Balkan countries with their family and children and have travelled a long way without enough money, food and hygienic conditions, so they are not in the best condition.

**The Migration Aid volunteers decided to help them find which trains or buses take them to their destination and give them food, drinks, personal hygiene products and a couple of good words while they are transiting at train stations.**

If you want to join the initiative, there are many ways you can help! Join our [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/migrationaidhungary) for regularly updated information.

**Come to the main train stations of Budapest** where you can find our volunteers (usually wearing a pin with the Migration Aid logo) and join them giving food, drinks and information to arriving refugees. Even if you only have an hour, it would be very helpful, especially if you speak any languages that the refugees might speak!

# How can I help?

**You can make donations, or you can volunteer.**

# Donations

{% include alert warning='Currently we are only accepting blankets, matresses, yoga mats, sleeping bags, raincoats and torches, which are accepted at the Mozsár steet storage.' %}

{% include alert warning='ATTENTION! THE RECEPTION OF DONATIONS IS TEMPORARILY SUSPENDED IN OUR CENTRAL STORAGE AND IN THE TRANZIT ZONES! PLEASE, DO NOT BRING/SEND DONATIONS TO THESE LOCATIONS UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE! WE WILL REOPEN OUR STORAGES VERY SOON!' %} 

We are incredibly moved by the generous amount of donations we have received recently from you for the asylum seekers. However, we received so much that our storage rooms are already full, and at the same time we are aware of a large amount of online orders that will arrive in the next few days. We are trying our best to sort and distribute the goods that we received from you among the asylum seekers in need. At the same time, we would like to ask you to **NOT TO BRING ANYTHING** either to Verseny street, Kálvária square, nor to any of the Tranzit Areas until further notice, when our storage will have been reduced. We will be able to supply the Tranzit Areas from the central storage for the next couple of days. 

Once we have arranged our storages, we will inform you here on our Facebook page and then you can bring more donations. Until then, we will be eternally grateful for your patience! Thank you! Those who have already dispacthed an online order or shipment to us, do not worry! 

We will accept each order that arrives. If you want to send us something now, please schedule the delivery later than 15 September to Verseny street, or wait until further notice.

## Donation centers and storage locations

### **Mozsár street storage**

Blankets, matresses, yoga mats, sleeping bags, raincoats and torches (manually chargeable) are accepted in the Mozsár street storage:

    Caledonia Étterem,
    Budapest 1066. Mozsár utca 9 
    every day 14.00.-19.00. 

Please dont birng anything else here, as we have no storage or transport for any other items! 
We have no cleaning facilities, so please make sure to only bring clean bnalkets and matresses. 

### **NEW STORAGE: Verseny street 10**

Our new storage room  is opening on 3rd September, Thursday. 
Address and opening hours:

      Verseny street 10
      1076 Budapest 
      (north from Keleti railway station)
      every day 16.00 - 20.00. 

If you would like to donate a larger quantity of goods or services, please contact us via adomany@migrationaid.net to discuss the details. Thank you!

<!--
We are looking forward to receive the following donations here (daily updated list is available on our [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/migrationaidhungary):


- blankets, sleeping bags, polifoam (yoga mattress) 
- raincoat 
- 0.5 l still water 
- 0.2 l fruit juice 
- pre-packed snack food (biscuits, waffles, muesli, candies) in small portions 
- fruit (banana, apply) 

At the moment we DO NOT COLLECT ANY TYPE OF CLOTHES. Please follow our Facebook page where we post the actual needs daily and we will communicate when we collect clothes again. Thank you!
Please only bring those items to our storage room which are listed above. There is a reason why the list is short and that is your immense generosity, since we received a tremendous amount of donations in the past few days and many of you informed us about online orders to be shipped in the next two weeks but our storage facilities are limited. Therefore, we will only collect clothes, toys, hygiene items again, once the accumulated storages are reduced. We will update the donation list on Facebook every morning 7 am CET with the daily needs.


-->
## **Storage faclities in the tranzit areas**

We are expecting volunteers at our storages at the official tranzit areas at the **Nyugati, Keleti and Déli** railway stations. 

### **Nyugati Storage at Nyugati railway station Tranzit area**
      
      Budapest, Nyugati railway station
      behind the Eiffel office building, from lane 14 the Tranzit area is signaled with boards
      Accepting donations for refugees travelling to camps
      every day 09.00 - 22.00

      
### **Keleti Storage at Keleti railway station Tranzit area**

      Budapest, district 8, Baross square
      underground, right from the Rottenbiller street exit
      Accepting donations for refugees travelling to camps
      every day 11.00 - 22.00

### **Déli Storage at Déli underground Tranzit area**

      Budapest, district 2, Déli train station
      underground, next to the second-hand bookstore (antikvárium)
      Accepting donations for refugees travelling to camps
      every day 0-24

<!--
**Things most needed in Tranzit areas in general:**

- 0.5 l still water
- 0.2 l fruit juice
- apple and banana
- muesli bars, chocolate bars, pre-packed (small portion) waffles, biscuits, snacks
- bakery products and sliced bread
- margarine, cream cheese, cucumber, nutella, easily openable cans of beans and fish
- plastic plates, cups and cutlery
- instant soup powder
- and personal hygiene items: shower gel, soap, shampoo, toothpaste, toothbrush, razor, shaving foam, deodorant, wet wipes for babies, diapers

However, depending on the conditions we might also collect other things, such as raincoats, sweaters, personal hygiene items. Please, check our [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/migrationaidhungary) before going to donate, as we publish an updated list daily with that day’s necessities for each Tranzit area. We also welcome volunteers to help sort and distribute donations, give information and attend arriving asylum seekers.
-->

# **Volunteering**
In the meanwhile, we really **need more volunteers at the train stations** to give information and directions to the immigrants, and at our storage locations too. 

Much of the work is coordinated through facebook gropus. If you want to volunteer, it's good to join this group: [MIGRATION AID](https://www.facebook.com/groups/1602563053360018/). The top post will contain a guide about how to sign up (in English too). 

You can also just look for our volunteers at the train stations of Budapest (Nyugati, Déli, Keleti) and offer your help directly.

We **need help at our donation center** at Verseny utca, to receive and select the donations and put together personal packages. If you are able to help, please come to one of our storage facilities, any days of the week. Watch for opening times!

**We also need the help of interpreters and translators**, especially in the following languages: Arabic, Urdu, Farsi, Pastu, Turkish, French, English, Albanian. Unfortunately, many refugees are in poor health conditions, we often **need medical help, volunteer doctors and nurses** are more than welcome to join our initiative! If you can help with interpretation or medical aid, please come to any train station in Budapest and offer your assistance to the volunteers there or let us know your contact details and availability also through migrationaidhungary@gmail.com



# **Helping from abroad**

### Funding medical aid
Migration Aid cannot accept money directly. However, if you would like to give money, you can donate to **Mikszáth Pharmacy’s bank account (Egészségért Foundation)**. The pharmacy has been supporting our work with pharmaceuticals for a while now. Though refugees are entitled for free basic health care services, they need to pay for medicines, and first aid products. 

When you donate, please send an e-mail to the adomany@migrationaid.net address with the amount you have given, so we can also keep track of the donations. 

      Beneficiary name: Mikszáth Gyógyszertár az Egészségért Alapítvány 
      Comment: Migration Aid
      Bank account number: 10918001-00000067-39140008 
      Name of the bank: UniCredit Bank Hungary 
      Address of the bank: 1054 Budapest, Szabadság tér 5-6., Hungary
      IBAN: HU69 1091 8001 0000 0067 3914 0008 
      SWIFT: BACXHUHB


### **Online shopping donations**

Another way of supportng our work with money is to place an online order and delivery at Tesco or GRoby, pay it online and have it shipped to our donation center at Verseny street.
If you want to send us your donations by mail or order online, we can receive the shipment at the following address:
      
      Verseny street 10
      1076 Budapest 
      (north from Keleti railway station)
      every day 16.00 - 20.00. 

{% include alert warning='PLEASE PUT HOME DELIVERY DONATIONS ON HOLD UNTIL SEPTEMBER 15!' %}

Suddenly we received many donations and we have reached the limit of our storage facility. Because of that, we would like to ask you to put your online shopping/home delivery donations on hold for 1-2 weeks, until we can empty the storages. It would also be best to consult the actual shopping lists later. Thank you for your understanding! 

<!--
 The most needed items for the supply of train stations:

- 0.5 liters natural water
- 0.2 liters fruit juice
- musli bars, chocolate bars, pre-packed (small portion) waffels, biscuits, snacks
- apples, bananas
- personal hygiene items: shower gel, soap, shampoo, toothpaste, toothbrush, razor, shaving foam, deodorant, sanitary pads
- bubble makers and kites

{% include alert info='Please note that most of the refugees are Muslims which means they do not consume anything that has pork or alcohol.' %}
-->

#### If you are doing a fundraiser from abroad

That is just great! Thank you! 
if you are raising money, pls keep in mind that we can cannot accept money directly, only material donations. Please consult our [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/migrationaidhungary) about what donations are in need, and if it is a bigger quantity, please contact us at adomany@migrationaid.net.
If you are collecting material donations, please consider what is worth shipping from abroad and what isn't. 


# **IMPORTANT**

- It is recommended to use plastic gloves when giving out food or treating sick refugees for your own safety
- It is NOT recommended to transport refugees in your own vehicle even with valid, but especially with expired papers because it can be considered human trafficking
- It is NOT recommended to lend your phone to refugees to make calls or send sms home, because you cannot be sure who they are messaging and it might be considered as crime
- Do not interfere with the work of the police. We are there to help each other and collaborate peacefully.
- Before taking photos or videos of the refugees, please ask their permission and do not publish their full name with their photos on any platform for their safety and the safety of their families staying in their home country
- It is not recommended to share your personal details, address on Facebook, neither the fact that you might take a refugee home to offer them showering and sleeping facilities
- If possible, please do not show pity. Smile and be direct while emphatic!

{% include alert info='Thank you in advance for your help!' %}
